
    LinkedIn

<https://www.linkedin.com/?trk=nav_logo>

  * Sign in
    <https://www.linkedin.com/uas/login?session_redirect=&goback=&trk=hb_signin>

  * Join now <https://www.linkedin.com/start/join?trk=hb_join>

Main content starts below.

Willian Santos <https://www.linkedin.com/in/willian-santos-uk>


  Willian Santos
  <https://www.linkedin.com/in/willian-santos-uk>FollowFollowingUnfollowWillian
  Santos

  Sign in to follow this author

  *

    Like

    Liked

    Unlike13 Examples of Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS)

    Sign in to like this article

    22 <#>
  *

    Comment

    Sign in to comment on this article

    0 <#comments>
  *

    ShareShare 13 Examples of Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS)

    Share

      o

        LinkedIn <#>
      o

        Facebook <#>
      o

        Twitter <#>
    9

Write an article <https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/article/new>


  13 Examples of Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS)

  * Published on July 21, 2017

  *

    Like

    Liked

    Unlike13 Examples of Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS)

    Sign in to like this article

    22 <#>
  *

    Comment

    Sign in to comment on this article

    0 <#comments>
  *

    ShareShare 13 Examples of Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS)

    Share

      o

        LinkedIn <#>
      o

        Facebook <#>
      o

        Twitter <#>
    9

Willian Santos <https://www.linkedin.com/in/willian-santos-uk>


    Willian Santos
    <https://www.linkedin.com/in/willian-santos-uk>FollowFollowingUnfollowWillian
    Santos

    Sign in to follow this author


      Intl. Sales Manager at ABI Electronics |Technology for Test &
      Repair | Saving customers time & money #Repairdontwaste


      Automotive safety technology is pretty easy to wrap your head
      around, but advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) are a little
      harder to pin down. At this point, the debate over whether
      anti-lock brakes are really necessary is pretty much nonexistent,
      but most technologies classified as ADAS are still seen as
      luxuries or even amusing curiosities.

Many advanced driver assistance systems are right on the bleeding edge
of emerging automotive technologies, and the jury is actually still out
on some of them. Some of these systems will have the staying power to
stick around, and you can expect to see at least a few of them in your
next car. Others may fizzle and disappear or be replaced by better
implementations of the same basic idea. Since ADAS rely on electronics
and often include firmware elements, the development of these
cutting-edge systems is governed by international safety standards
like IEC-61508 <https://www.lifewire.com/learn-how-car-tech-4102747>
and ISO-26262 <https://www.lifewire.com/what-is-iso-493305>.

Advanced driver assistance systems are tweaked every year, but here are
thirteen different options that you might want to check out the next
time you're in the market for a new car.


      *1. **Adaptive cruise control*
      <https://www.lifewire.com/adaptive-cruise-control-definition-534813>

This advanced driver assistance technology is especially useful on the
motorway, where drivers otherwise have to constantly monitor their
cruise control systems for safety reasons. With advanced cruise control,
a vehicle will automatically slow down or speed up in response to the
actions of the car or truck in front of it. Most of these systems
automatically shut off below a certain speed threshold, but others can
even be used in stop and go traffic.


      *2. **Adaptive light control*
      <https://www.lifewire.com/what-are-adaptive-headlights-534820>

Adaptive light control systems are designed to help drivers see better
and further in the darkness. This advanced driver assistance technology
allows the headlights to swivel and rotates to better illuminate the
roadway through corners and in other circumstances.



      *3. **Automatic braking*
      <https://www.lifewire.com/what-is-automatic-braking-system-534823>

Automatic braking is a precrash technology that is designed to reduce
the severity of high-speed collisions in the event of a lapse of driver
attention. While some automatic braking systems can actually prevent
collisions, they’re typically meant to slow the vehicle to the point
where less damage is caused and fatalities are unlikely.

*4. **Automatic parking*
<https://www.lifewire.com/automatic-parking-systems-534801>

Automatic parking systems vary from one OEM to another, but most of them
are designed to help a driver parallel park. Some of these systems can
actually perform the entire job automatically, and others simply provide
advice so that the driver knows when to turn the steering wheel and when
to stop.

*5. **Blind spot detection*
<https://www.lifewire.com/decoding-blind-spot-detection-534803>

Blind spot detection systems use a variety of sensors to provide a
driver with vital information that would be difficult or impossible to
come by through any other means. Some of these systems will sound an
alarm if they sense the presence of an object within a blind spot, and
other include cameras that can transmit an image to the head unit or
another monitor.

*6. **Collision avoidance systems*
<https://www.lifewire.com/automobile-collision-avoidance-systems-534805>

Collision avoidance systems use a variety of sensors to determine
whether a vehicle is in danger of colliding with another object. These
systems can typically sense the proximity of other vehicles,
pedestrians, animals, and various roadway obstructions. When the vehicle
is in danger of colliding with another object, the collision avoidance
system will warn the driver. Some of these systems can also take other
preventive actions, such as precharging the brakes or apply tension to
the seat belts.

*7. **Driver drowsiness detection*
<https://www.lifewire.com/drivers-alter-systems-534806>

Driver drowsiness or awareness detection systems use a number of
different means to determine if a driver’s attention is starting to
wander. Some of these systems look for the driver’s head to nod in a
telltale motion that indicates sleepiness, and others use technology
similar to lane detection warning systems.

*8. **GPS navigation*
<https://www.lifewire.com/oem-infotainment-systems-navigation-534746>

GPS navigation systems effectively replace bulky, cumbersome paper maps.
These devices are often capable of providing vocal directions as well,
which saves the driver from having to actually look at the screen. Some
GPS navigation systems also provide live traffic data, which drivers
previously had to obtain by listening to news radio stations.

*9. **Hill descent control*
<https://www.lifewire.com/hill-descent-control-systems-534812>

Hill descent control is an advanced driver assistance technology that
makes it easier to descend steep inclines. These systems typically work
by activating the brakes to automatically slow the vehicle, which works
through the same basic mechanism that allows ABS, TCS, and other
technologies to function. Some hill descent control systems allow the
speed to be modified via the cruise control system, and they can
typically be overridden by pressing either the brake or the accelerator.


      *10. **Intelligent speed adaptation*
      <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intelligent_speed_adaptation>

This advanced driver assistance system depends on a variety of
information to help a driver maintain a legal speed. Since these systems
monitor the current speed and compare it with the local speed limit,
they only function in certain areas.


      *11. **Lane departure warning systems*
      <https://www.lifewire.com/what-are-lane-departure-warning-systems-534822>

Lane departure warning systems use a variety of sensors to make sure
that a vehicle doesn’t leave its lane accidentally. If the system
determines that the vehicle is drifting, it will sound an alarm so that
the driver can take a corrective action in time to avoid hitting another
car or running off the road. Lane-keeping assistance systems go a step
further and are actually capable of taking small corrective actions
without any driver input.


      *12. **Night vision*
      <https://www.lifewire.com/what-is-automotive-night-vision-534824>

Night vision systems allow drivers to see things that would otherwise be
difficult or impossible to make out at night. There are a number of
different implementations, all of which can be broken down into the
categories of active and passive. Active night vision systems project
infrared light, and passive systems rely on the thermal energy that
emanates from cars, animals, and other objects.


      *13. **Tire pressure monitoring*
      <https://www.lifewire.com/monitoring-tire-pressure-534815>

Tire pressure monitoring systems provide the driver with information
about the inflation level of each tire. Since the only other way to find
out tire pressure involves getting out of the car, getting down on the
ground, and physically checking each tire with a gauge, this represents
a huge increase in convenience.

The leading ADAS manufacturers in 2017 are:

  * Aisin Seiki Co
  * Autoliv AB
  * Bosch Group
  * Continental AG
  * Delphi Automotive Company
  * Denso Corporation
  * Freescale Semiconductor Inc
  * Gentex Corporation
  * Harman International
  * Hella KGaA Hueck & Co
  * Hyundai Mobis
  * Magna International Inc
  * Mobileye N.V
  * NVIDIA Corporation
  * Panasonic Corporation
  * Renesas Electronics Corporation
  * Takata Corporation
  * Texas Instruments
  * TRW Automotive
  * Valeo SA

ABI Electronics (www.abielectronics.co.uk
<http://www.abielectronics.co.uk/>) provides exclusive testing solutions
to support ADAS manufacturers running R&D and failure analysis tasks in
multiple geographic locations driven by ABI's SYSTEM 8 Range of hardware
and software p
<http://www.abielectronics.co.uk/Products/BoardMaster8000.php>roducts.
ABI's TestFlow Manager provides unique and user-friendly means to create
interactive test sequences with extensive fault logging capabilities.
Power-on/off tests can be carried out at system level all the way to
component level.

ABI Electronics is a UK based designer and manufacturer of specialist
solutions for testing PCBs and electronic components. ABI was founded in
1983 and operate in 60 countries around the world supporting military,
aerospace, aviation, rail transport and automotive organisations.

Contact ABI on sales@abielectronics.co.uk to find out more.


Key references:

www.lifewire.com // www.abielectronics.co.uk // www.visiongain.com

#Repairdontwaste // #ADAS // #ABISavesYouTime // #Automotive

  *

    Like

    Liked

    Unlike13 Examples of Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS)

    Sign in to like this article

  *

    Comment

    Sign in to comment on this article

  *

    ShareShare 13 Examples of Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS)

    Share

      o

        LinkedIn <#>
      o

        Facebook <#>
      o

        Twitter <#>

FollowFollowingUnfollowWillian Santos

Sign in to follow this author

Willian Santos <https://www.linkedin.com/in/willian-santos-uk>


    Willian Santos <https://www.linkedin.com/in/willian-santos-uk>


      Intl. Sales Manager at ABI Electronics |Technology for Test &
      Repair | Saving customers time & money #Repairdontwaste

  * 20 articles <https://www.linkedin.com/today/author/willian-santos-uk>

0 comments
NewestRecommendedOldestNewest

Comment settings

  *
    Recommended

  *
    Oldest

  *
    Newest


          Comment settings

Allow comments

Disable comments

All the existing comments will be deleted.

Save changesCancel

Dismiss

Sign in
<https://www.linkedin.com/uas/login?session_redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.linkedin.com%2Fpulse%2F13-examples-advanced-driver-assistance-systems-adas-willian-santos>
to leave your comment
 Show more.


  Don't miss more articles by Willian Santos

  *
    <https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/electronics-powered-oilfield-drilling-technologies-willian-santos>


        Electronics powered oilfield drilling technologies
        <https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/electronics-powered-oilfield-drilling-technologies-willian-santos>

      o Willian Santos on LinkedIn
  *
    Interview with the electronic repair facility manager at Ireland's
    national railway operator, Irish Rail.
    <https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/irish-rail-interview-internal-electronics-repair-creates-santos>


        Irish Rail Interview: internal electronics repair creates huge
        value, increases overall efficiency and has a promising future.
        <https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/irish-rail-interview-internal-electronics-repair-creates-santos>

      o Willian Santos on LinkedIn
  *
    <https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/car-manufacturers-secret-weapon-slash-plant-operating-willian-santos>


        The car manufacturers' secret weapon to slash plant operating
        costs
        <https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/car-manufacturers-secret-weapon-slash-plant-operating-willian-santos>

      o Willian Santos on LinkedIn


      Looking for more of the latest headlines on LinkedIn?

Discover more stories <https://www.linkedin.com/>

  * Help Center <https://www.linkedin.com/help/linkedin?lang=en>
  * About <https://press.linkedin.com/about-linkedin>
      o Press
        <http://www.linkedin.com/redir/redirect?url=https%3A%2F%2Fpress%2Elinkedin%2Ecom%2F&urlhash=uTdA>
      o Blog
        <http://www.linkedin.com/redir/redirect?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog%2Elinkedin%2Ecom%2F&urlhash=bplK>
      o Developers
        <http://www.linkedin.com/redir/redirect?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdeveloper%2Elinkedin%2Ecom&urlhash=Qc8->
  * Careers
    <https://www.linkedin.com/company/linkedin/careers?trk=hb_ft_work>
  * Advertising
    <https://www.linkedin.com/advertising?src=en-all-el-li-hb_ft_ads&trk=hb_ft_ads>
  * Talent Solutions
    <http://www.linkedin.com/redir/redirect?url=http%3A%2F%2Fbusiness%2Elinkedin%2Ecom%2Ftalent-solutions%3Fsrc%3Dli-footer&urlhash=f9Nj>
  * Sales Solutions
    <http://www.linkedin.com/redir/redirect?url=http%3A%2F%2Fbusiness%2Elinkedin%2Ecom%2Fsales-solutions%3Fsrc%3Dli-footer%26trk%3Dlss_linkedin_footer_link2micro%26utm_source%3Dfooter%26utm_medium%3Dlinkedin%26utm_campaign%3Dlinkedin-footer&urlhash=_ibI>
  * Small Business
    <http://www.linkedin.com/redir/redirect?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsmallbusiness%2Elinkedin%2Ecom%2F%3Ftrk%3Dlnkd_footer%26utm_source%3Dlinkedin%26utm_medium%3Dfooter%26utm_content%3D%26utm_campaign%3Dlifooter&urlhash=lFQo>
  * Mobile <https://mobile.linkedin.com/>
  * Language <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o Bahasa Indonesia <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o Bahasa Malaysia <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o Čeština <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o Dansk <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o Deutsch <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o *English* <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o Español <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o 繁體中文 <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o Français <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o 한국어 <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o Italiano <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o 简体中文 <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o Nederlands <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o 日本語 <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o Norsk <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o Polski <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o Português <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o Română <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o Русский <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o Svenska <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o Tagalog <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o ภาษาไทย <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o Türkçe <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>
      o العربية <https://www.linkedin.com/secure/settings>

  * Online Learning
    <https://www.linkedin.com/learning/?trk=li_footer_learning>
  * ProFinder <https://www.linkedin.com/profinder?trk=hb_ft_profinder>

  * Search Jobs <https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/?trk=hb_ft_jobs>

  * Directories
  * Members
    <https://www.linkedin.com/directory/people-a?trk=hb_ft_peopledir>
  * Pulse <https://www.linkedin.com/directory/pulse>
  * Companies <https://www.linkedin.com/directory/companies>
  * Universities <https://www.linkedin.com/directory/universities>

LinkedIn Corporation /© 2018/

  * User Agreement
    <https://www.linkedin.com/legal/user-agreement?trk=hb_ft_userag>
  * Privacy Policy
    <https://www.linkedin.com/legal/privacy-policy?trk=hb_ft_priv>
  * Community Guidelines
    <https://www.linkedin.com/help/linkedin/answer/34593?lang=en>
  * Cookie Policy
    <https://www.linkedin.com/legal/cookie-policy?trk=hb_ft_cookie>
  * Copyright Policy
    <https://www.linkedin.com/legal/copyright-policy?trk=hb_ft_copy>
  * Unsubscribe
    <https://www.linkedin.com/psettings/guest-email-unsubscribe?trk=hb_ft_gunsub>

